= Deeby

* http://github.com/jbarnette/deeby

== Description

Tasks to switch your Rails database configuration for a single Rake
run. Useful when you're targeting more than one database engine.

I use this for Rails, but it should work in any framework that uses
a config/database.yml file.

== Examples

Create a <tt>database.[DB].yml</tt> file for each extra DB setup you
might want to use. For example:

    $ ls config/database.*.yml
    config/database.pg.yml
    config/database.sqlite.yml

These files look remarkably similar to <tt>database.yml</tt>, they're
just written for a different DB engine. Deeby looks for files that
match this pattern and generates prefix Rake tasks for each
alternative DB file you've created.

For the example above, Deeby will generate tasks called <tt>db:pg</tt>
and <tt>db:sqlite</tt>. These tasks swap out <tt>database.yml</tt> for
the scope of the Rake run and restore it when you're finished.

Let's say you develop on MySQL by default, but you're also deploying
(or transitioning) to Postgres. Once you've written
<tt>database.pg.yml</tt>, here's how it works out:

    # runs the tests against your normal setup (MySQL)
    $ rake test

    # runs the tests against your Postgres setup
    $ rake db:pg test

...and things are back to normal afterward. Don't forget to run
<tt>db:create</tt> and <tt>db:reset</tt> (or whatever) with the prefix
task when you're setting things up initially:

    # new Postgres setup
    $ rake db:pg db:create db:reset

== Installation

    $ gem install deeby

    # in your Rakefile
    require "deeby"

== License

Copyright 2009 John Barnette (jbarnette@rubyforge.org)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
